# Recast - Pathfinding 

---
title: "Figuring out how to implement pathfinding , a use case for using recast"
date: 2025-05-19
author: "Muneeb Haq"
tags: ["raylib", "c programming", "game development", "Musings"]
---

# Attempting to create a pathfinding solution for rts units

I am going to need some sort of a pathfinding solution for a single selection and a multiselection unit movement. When units are group selected or single selected and are told to navigate to a destination, they should navigate to that destination without colliding with any other units or objects while findings its way to the destination.


## Why Recast?

   Recast provides the concept of generatable navmeshes, a navmesh is a simplified view of the traversable area of a game world, which are built from physical colliders of the world and define physical areas that AI's can exist.

   The main navmesh is composed of triangles of which are grouped together into a pathfinding graph; adjacent triangles define a connection and those connections are used by a string pulling algorithm which an AI can create a sequence of line segments to pull its way to its goal.


- **Flexiblity** Recast has the ability to create navmeshes for any 3d environment that you throw at it. Leading to flexibility to use in any game.
- Multiple navmeshes to map to many types of character sizes and slopes
- **Detour** AI movement controller  shows how to path generated navmesh
-




## Setting Up



## Alternatives

- A*
- (Flow Field)[https://www.gameaipro.com/GameAIPro/GameAIPro_Chapter23_Crowd_Pathfinding_and_Steering_Using_Flow_Field_Tiles.pdf]



## Reasons for Using:

-  Use flowfield for large units count, and many numbers of units going same directions. Like army. Larger the map the more memory need be used for caching. Better for managing many thousands of agents.

- Use NavMesh, when maps are large with many open spaces, and you have many agents moving in various directions. I.e. free roaming.

- Use Grid and A* like navigation, if map is not too big, but want relatively easy implementation navigation system for many units.

- Use graph node based navigation for roads alike. 