# Recast - Pathfinding 

---
title: "Pathfining Optimizatons"
date: 2025-05-26
author: "Muneeb Haq"
tags: ["raylib", "c programming", "game development", "Blog", "Algorithm"]
---

# Pathfining using A* (A-star) Alogorithm and optimizing it

   This article concerns with using A* in a single thread loop synchronously, and its potential performance impact that may have on speed. 


## The problem 

  For one single unit on a small grid the path finding algorithm performs just fine. However, when we ratchet up the number objects having the pathfinding algorithm run on within a single frame, this causes several issues.  We can see in severe cases the program can segmetation fault and straight up crash. 

  The main thread is getting blocked while the path finding algorithm is performing its task, and as our game grows in complexity , this will slow the program down. 

## Optimizations

  - Multithreading / Async Pathfinding :
      - Move FindPath() off of the main thread
      - utilize a thread pool 
      - std::packaged_task for each path request
      - in each frame if any thread has completed, take the result in

   - Hierarchical Pathfinding :
      - Break the grid into veroni squares and do the path finding at macro level, then do local refinment.
      - Reduces computation for long distance 

   - Switch to Recast/Detour 
   
   - Deletion and cleanup of old objects to ensure objects bieng created are not clogging memory.

   - Switch to Hexgrid for more natrual movement?
      

## Transforming to HexGrid

- Sqaure grid movement appears to be stilted and seems too obvious that the user is moving on a grid. Transform the user to a Hex grid.

